Adding Readme file (#10)
dyazdani/contact-list: README.md

# UrContacts
> A contact list application

> UrContacts is a React contact list app built with full CRUD capabilities. It uses json-server to locally host a JSON file database on the backend, where your data will persist.

Reviewer: You could mention that it persists locally, so it keep all of your private data on your machine. I think that's a cool feature of this setup

## Installation and Build

> 

Reviewer: Add a step here for cloning & cd'ing into the repo

> 1. `npm init -y`

Reviewer: This command isn't needed, since you already ran it. It basically just creates and sets up the `package.json` to track the various dependencies and metadata about the project

2. This app was built with Vite. While you may use whatever React bootstrapping tool you prefer to get the app running, Vite has some useful features built-in, such as TypeScript and a server: [Vite][vite]. Instructions from here on out will assume you have some way a spinning a server locally.

> 3. If you use a bootstrapping tool other than Vite, make sure it has TypeScript baked in, or install TypeScript separately: [TypeScript][typescript]

Reviewer: These should already be included in your `package.json` so you don't need to mention them, other than if you want to separately add a list of technologies used (in which case I don't think you need to explain them, just listing them is usually fine)

> 4. `npm install --save json-server react-router-dom` 

Reviewer: If you have been saving all of your dependencies in your `package.json` file, then all the suer should need to do is call `npm install`

5. Add your server start scripts to your `package.json`:

    "scripts": {
        // .. 
        "server:dev": "json-server --watch ./data/db.json",
        "start": "json-server ./data/db.json --static ./dist"
        //..

>     }

Reviewer: Not needed. This is already in your `package.json` now, which is checked into the repo. This is only a required step in bootstrapping for you, not for end-user

6. To run your server: `npm run server:dev`

> 7. In a separate terminal, start your React app using Vite: `npm run dev`

Reviewer: For end-user, you'll want to create a separate start script that is not `dev` (dev = you, basically)

They should be able to just call `npm run build` and then `npm start` (which if you check the `package.json`, we've already added the right commands there for starting both server & serving the client)

Author: Yes! Makes sense. Question: the script says `build`, but does it still need `run` before it when they use npm. In other words, they need to enter `npm run build` instead of `npm build`?

### Additional Notes
UrContacts uses React Router to route to various URLs in on your browser: 

> /                               => Home page
> /contacts                       => contact list
> /contacts/{contactID}           => contact by id
> /create                         => create new contact
> /contacts/{contactID}/update    => update contact

Reviewer: Just recommending you use the same syntax here as for React Router params:

```suggestion
/                               => Home page
/contacts                       => contact list
/contacts/:contactID           => contact by id
/create                         => create new contact
/contacts/:contactID/update    => update contact
```

--

For more information about json-server, consult the docs here: [npm: json-server][json-server]  

## Information

> UrContacts provides functionality for creating, updating, deleting, and searching for contacts in a list stored as a JSON file on a locally hosted json-server. The app uses async calls to the json-server using the fetch API, and data that you add, update, or delete persist in the json-server in the `db.json` file. The app uses the React Router package to create routes to different application features while maintaining a single-page application experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UrContacts provides functionality for creating, updating, deleting, and searching for contacts in a list stored as a JSON file on a locally hosted json-server. The app uses async calls to the json-server using the fetch API, and data that you add, update, or delete persist in the json-server in the `db.json` file. The app uses the React Router library to create routes to different application features while maintaining a single-page application experience.
```

Reviewer: @dyazdani  did you miss this one? (you can hit "Commit suggestion" button if you like the suggestion btw)

Author: Got it. done.

> ## User Experience

Reviewer: I would recommend calling this header `Features` instead

### Home Page
From the home page, you will be able to see how many contacts are currently in your list. Click on the link on the homepage to view your contact list. If there are currently np contacts in your list, you will be prompted to create a new contact.

### Create a New Contact
To create a new contact, click the "Create New Contact link in the lower left corner. A form will then appear for you to fill out and submit. Then, voila, you will see the name of your new contact in your list.

### Contact Details
To view the details of any of your contacts, click on their name from the contact list screen and you will be taken to a page with their contact information.

### Update Contact
To update a contact's information, click on the "Update Contact" link in the bottom left corner of their contact details page. The same form that appeared when you created the contact will reappear with the current information populated in it. Simply edit the information there and resubmit the form to save.

### Delete Contact
To delete a contact, click the "Delete Contact" button on the contact's details page.

### Search

> From the contact list page, you can use the search field at the bottom to search for a specific contact. After typing in the search field and clicking the "Search" button, your results will appear on the same page as a filtered contact list of the results that matched your search. To view all of the contacts in your list again, click the "See All Contacts" link in the lower right corner. 

Reviewer: note: it can be useful to include screenshots when documenting UI functionality (it runs the risk of needing to keep them up to date, but it's usually worth it even if they do get out of date, to make it clear what you're talking about).

You can add images in Github MD files by adding them to the repo, and then referencing them in the MD like so:

```
![some alt text](./path/to/some/image.extension)
```

Author: I was thinking screenshots might be useful! I'll do that.

> From the contact list page, you can use the search field at the bottom to search for a specific contact. After typing in the search field and clicking the "Search" button, your results will appear on the same page as a filtered contact list of the results that matched your search. To view all of the contacts in your list again, click the "See All Contacts" link in the lower right corner. 

Reviewer: I would recommend breaking these up into bullet points, instead of long-form text, wherever possible

## Release History

* 0.1.0

>     * The first proper release

Reviewer: Major release = 1.0.0

Reviewer: @dyazdani

Author: Got it.

## Meta

Dara Yazdani 
dara.s.yazdani@gmail.com

[https://github.com/dyazdani/contact-list](https://github.com/dyazdani/)

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/dyazdani/contact-list/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

<!-- Markdown link & img dfn's -->

> [typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/id/download

Reviewer: Add a header before this section, also move this much higher, maybe even before the install/build steps, since it's more like overview info

Author: Does this section show up when displayed on GitHub though? I don't see it when I go to my GitHub page?

Reviewer: Weird, you're right, it does not. Why/how did you add it?

Author: I used a template I found online for GitHub READMEs. seems like it is a way to assign a link to a variable name. Could I move these links into the "Technologies Used" section? That is what you are wanting before the installation/build steps right?

# UrContacts
> A contact list application

UrContacts is a React contact list app built with full CRUD capabilities. It uses json-server to locally store your data in a JSON file at the backend. Because your data persists on a locally hosted database, your data is completely private.

## Installation and Build

> 1. Clone GitHub repo into a desired local root directory: 
>     - HTTPS: https://github.com/dyazdani/contact-list.git
>     - SSH: `git@github.com:dyazdani/contact-list.git`
>     - GitHub CLI: `gh repo clone dyazdani/contact-list` 

Reviewer: You don't need to say how to clone, someone using GitHub will typically know how to do this. And this way if you ever change your username or this repo's name, it won't need to be kept up to date.

Also noting that they can choose to download instead of cloning if they want.

```suggestion
1. Clone or download GitHub repo into a desired local root directory.
```

Author: Got it. Out of curiosity, downloading the code would just give yo a copy of it without putting it in a Git repo, right?

> 2. `cd contact-list`

Reviewer: You don't need to tell them to do this, especially since you don't know exactly how they will download the code. I would recommend removing

> 3. `npm install` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `npm install` in the project directory
```

4. `npm run build`

> 5. `npm start`

Reviewer: Recommend also including the URL & port number where the app will run (I forget which port this one uses? 3000?)

## Features

UrContacts provides functionality for creating, updating, deleting, and searching for contacts in a list stored as a JSON file on a locally hosted json-server. The app uses async calls to the json-server using the fetch API, and data that you add, update, or delete persist in the json-server in the `db.json` file. The app uses the React Router package to create routes to different application features while maintaining a single-page application experience.

### Technologies Used
- React
- TypeScript
- Vite
- React Router
    UrContacts uses React Router to route to various URLs in on your browser: 

    /                               => Home page
    /contacts                       => contact list
    /contacts/{contactID}           => contact by id
    /create                         => create new contact

>     /contacts/{contactID}/update    => update contact

Reviewer: I think these details could go under the User Experience section?

- [json-server][json-server] 

## User Experience
### Home Page `/`
- From the home page, you will be able to see how many contacts are currently in your list.
- If there are no contacts, you will be prompted to create a new contact. 

> - Click on "Go to UrContacts List" to view your contact list (`/contacts`). 

Reviewer: A common technical documentation style included in many techdocs style guides (I think it may come from Cisco originally but I'm not sure, I've seen it in so many style guides at this point) is bold for anything that is an actual term from the UI. I think it helps improve readability

```suggestion
- Click **Go to UrContacts List** to view your contact list (`/contacts`). 
```

### Create a New Contact `/create`

> - Click on "Create New Contact" in the lower left corner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **Create New Contact** at the bottom left corner of the page
```

- A form will then appear to fill and submit.

> - You will then see your new contact appear in your list.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
- Complete and submit the form and your new contact will appear in your list.
```

### Contact Details `/contacts/{contactID}`

> - Click contact's name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click a contact's name to view a page with their contact information
```

> - You will be taken to a page with their contact information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Update Contact `/contacts/{contactID}/update`

> - Click on the "Update Contact" link. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **Update Contact**. 
```

> - The form will reappear with the current information populated in it. 

Reviewer: nit: From user perspective, this is a new form (also, passive voice)
```suggestion
- This will open the update form
```

> - Edit information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edit the desired fields.
```

> - Submit form to save.

Reviewer: Not sure if the button is called Submit or Save?

```suggestion
- Click **Submit** to save your changes.
```

### Delete Contact

> - Click the "Delete Contact" button on the contact's details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the Contact Details page, click **Delete Contact**
```

### Search for Contact

> - Type in the search field at the bottom of the contacts list page. 

Reviewer: nit: identify it using the input label
```suggestion
- Type into the **Search UrContacts** field at the bottom of the contacts list page. 
```

> - Clicking "Search" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **Search** to change the results displayed
```

> - Results will appear on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - To view all contacts, click "See All Contacts". 

Reviewer: is this accurate?
```suggestion
-  Click **See All Contacts** to reset the search and see all contacts
```

Author: Yes
